routes to cleaning up diskspace

You need to learn about files on a laptop in linux to get a better understanding so here we  go:

A bit of history:
DOS operating system was comand line only.
The Windows icon is not required on a computer.
EG you can type win to start the windows os(Operating System).

Windows used letters to asign drives
a and b were removable disks. c is the hard drive, (internal disk)
So c became the letter for your internal disk and additional disks were given the next available letters, (d, e and f).

c is still the name of the windows internal hard drive, and the next available letters are given for additional disks such as D, E(for dvd rw) and F for local disk etc,

You could install things in dos wherever you wanted to, windows is installed in its own file called windows.

Later, microsoft changed how it booted to be less dependent then completely independent of dos.

Kernel
The kernel is a computer program at the core of a computer's operating system and generally has complete control over everything in the system.

STOPPED HERE##
LINUX IS DIFFERENT
It doesn't install appliations like windows does.

Program files directory: windows default installation directory for most applications

Linux follows unix traditions using the forward slash instead of the window's backslash.
Also capitalisation is relevent. File and fiLe are completely different filenames.

AS a side note: MAC evolved from a unix ancestor BSD


Linux folders
bin = binary files. These list terminal commands, ie mkdir, ls cat, cd etc etc
stopped here

sbin = for system administrator. A standard user doesn't have access to this one. 
This is for single user mode (for maintenance and repair/upgrades and testing) as opposed to the usual multi user mode.
Single user mode boots you in as a route user. Networking is usually disabled in this mode for security reasons.


boot = a folder you don't want to play around with. It contains everyting your os needs to boot

cdrom = Not on all distros and more of a legacy mounting point for your cd rom.

dev = where your devices live, your hardware.  Applications and drivers access this file.


etc = where all system wide configurations are stored. Not for a per-user setting.


lib = libraries. Libraries are files that applications can use to perform various functions. The are required in the binaries in bin and sbin.

stopped here.5.29 in
media and mnt or mount = for other mounted drives(floppy disk/usb stick, external hard drive, network drive or even a second hard drive etc. So this is where to look for  a, b and d drives.

The media folder is relatively new.
Nowadays, most distros automatically mount devices for you in this directory

Use the mnt directory to mount things manually

Leave the media directory to the os to manage most distros

Side note:
A file manager creates folder but not files.
Applications create files.


opt = This is the optional folder where manually installed software from vendors resides





Found this
https://www.nucleiotechnologies.com/increasing-disk-space-on-file-system-root-ubuntu-20-04/#:~:text=Proceed%20by%20opening%20Ubuntu%20VM,it%20on%20your%20desired%20amount.


Apparantly Need to download this
sudo apt install virtualbox-qt

I'm not sure if it worked but a search for virtual box in bottom right search found it. 

go to 
file>virtual media manager

ubuntu.vdi should be showing in the box but it is not. 

So it's probably best to abort for now and perhaps see about removing software you don't use. 


